# Memory-Game

*The app is available for download in the [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=aus10.games.memorygame).*

### Overview
This application was developed using Android Studio and Google's Firebase.
An Android application for a multi-player version of the classic card game, Memory. Multiplayer functionality was created using the Realtime Database from Firebase. Players take turns flipping cards and looking for matching images. Once a match is found, the cards disappear and the players score increases. Once all the cards are gone, the player with the highest score is the winner. There is also a single player mode with three levels of difficulty: easy, medium, and hard. Each mode doubles the number of images, and the images also become more similar, making it harder to find matches. 

### Multiplayer
When on the Multiplayer Menu, the user is prompted with the option to `Create a Game` or `Join a Game`. If they choose to create a game, they will be assigned to Player 1, and given a 4 character alpha-numeric code. If they choose to join an existing game, they will be assined to Player 2 and prompted to enter the game code. If the entered code matches an existing game, then both players will be put into the game. Player 1 will randomly generate a game board and write the ID number of the image to the database. Player 2 will read in the board from the database and assign the images accordingly. Player 1 will move first and then alternate turns with player 2. Each turn, the player will write their move to the database and the other player will read in their move to reveal the cards that were turned over by the other palyer. If either player exits the game via the `Exit` button, both players will be sent back to the Multiplayer Menu and the game room will be deleted from the database. At the end of the game, if both players choose to play again, the existing game board will be deleted and replaced by a new board that is again randomly generated by Player 1 and written to the database. All moves done by each player is also removed at the start of a new game. 
